I can think of some regions that live under the
ocean. I think a great place for nightclubs, for
instance. I can think of great nightclubs.
There's a beautiful one in the Gulf of Eilat that
the Israelis have. And you sit down there
underneath, looking up through glass windows and
everything going on in that beautiful part of the
branch of the Red Sea. I can think of condominiums
for people with emphysema
living under one atmosphere, extra pressure. two
atmospheres of pressure, they could live
perfectly normal lives, couldn't they? That's
all they need. Why should people go around gasping
for breath in the last 10 years of their life when
they could live under one extra atmosphere and
breathe normally?
And this might be a reasonable sort of location for
a condominium under a couple of atmospheres of
pressure down some beautiful parts of Florida
Straits.
And it makes it much easier to build and less
dangerous if it's under water, where the pressure
is equalized on the inside and outside. But as far
as people just inhabiting the bottom of the ocean
for reasons of space, I'd rather consider taking
Jupiter apart and making some more planets. I
think that's more feasible.
That's a big engineering job. You can make dozens
and dozens of planets.
I'd like to be around for that one, by the way. Well,
maybe you don't want to do that. Maybe you want to do
is just add a little bit to Mars from Jupiter, you
see, to make it more habitable.
It's a real chemical engineering job, too,
changing that ammonia into something else and
getting water and so on, getting a decent
atmosphere. Were you surprised, by the way, with
reports coming back from Mars in terms of the
satellite pictures or the landing pictures we're
receiving now? I've been in Baja, California.
I've been looking at Martian landscape for quite a
while down there. But what are these like? They're
boulder-strewn, aren't they? They're
boulder-strewn, and the possibility that many of
them are cut by water. Oh, yeah, sure. Well,
obviously Mars has its ice caps of some sort. It has
water or some condensable fluid. That's some
condensable gas. And it certainly probably had
more in the past. No, I don't think I was
particularly surprised. Not that I was believing
the canals of Mars, but
I think it's perfectly real. What I was really
surprised on at was the surface of Venus. I mean, it
really didn't occur to me, or I guess anybody else,
that with such a dense atmosphere as Venus, and
even with such tremendously high wind
velocities, that the boundary layer should be so
thick that there was no wind at the surface,
essentially windless at the surface. I think that
was strange.
All right. I wanted to ask you two or three
questions about aquaculture. Do you see the
future in aquaculture and such things as planned
oyster beds, or do you see it in terms of mining what
we always classified before as seaweeds, or both?
Well, you know, we start out with I'm thinking
we've just thought of agriculture. Of course,
every place in the world, other than the United
States, has conducted it for a long time.
Japanese, there's tremendous industries all
through Indonesia. Almost everybody in the world
knows more about agriculture than we do. We start
out as though, now we're going to solve all these
problems. I was looking at East Pakistan, and East
Pakistan produces in its ponds. Now, this is
freshwater. Ponds and bills. And about as much
fish, that little country produced about as much
fish as a third of the US catch, just from its ponds
and bill. Oh, it's essentially culture. Well,
hell, everybody knows more about this than we do.
And so I'm not quite sure what you mean. Why don't
you ask me about a future of it? If you ask me, is the
United States going to learn from anybody, I'm not
so sure. They're going to go through all the
difficulties of trying to solve the problems all
by themselves. They're going to make it so
expensive that the only thing that can possibly be
used is high luxury food that has nothing to do
about the impact of protein food on the world's
supply, as far as I can see. Now, it does seem to me
that we're trying to jump, if you look at, you're an
agricultural historian, and I may be quite wrong
about this history, but it seems to me like there's
a sequential series from the hunting economy to
the gathering economy to what I would call the
ranch economy. where you use preferred
herbivores to crop the land with their own energy,
to the farm in which you start to raise the supplies
for your domestic animals, to the battery culture
in which you bring food in to immobilized or
essentially immobilized creatures from
whatever worldwide sources are necessary. Now,
we're immediately leaping to that last step, the
battery culture. But ocean is a poor environment.
It's a thin broth that has trace. The food is highly
dispersed in a dense medium. It's a million times
more dilute than, say, a grass field, a field of
grass. A million times more
dilute. Traditionally, and even today, in modern
society, where you have a poor environment, you
use ranging techniques. You send your preferred
creature out onto this. You don't use diesel oil.
You do a little bit of diesel oil to cultivate or
gather food and bring it into them. You let them
burn some part of the crop that's sparsely
distributed out here, and then you have a roundup.
You bring them back in some way, and you have made
some net gain. Well, the one interesting thing you
have in the ocean is this number of species that
will round themselves up, all the anadromous
fishes, the ones that come in and spawn. And some of
these are primitive feeders, some of the shads.
The hilsa, the Indian shad, is a particularly fine
food fish. So it seems to me like a sensible step
would really be ranging. That is, you culture a
population which you now turn loose in its thin
environment to graze it and then to return to you,
you see. And you can do some predator control and
maybe some seeding of sorts, just essentially the
way you do it in rangeland management.
essentially the same sort of level. But our effort
here is to or leap all of these steps that we've
taken 3,000 years to go through on land and go right
to battery culture. Well, I don't know. The
problems, obviously, of animal husbandry, once
you get to these more concentrated levels, has
totally been a disease. And we have spent a
tremendous lot of time. This is a disease of any
concentration of organisms. And we spent a lot of
time solving this in the case of our preferred
species on land. Each one of these organisms in the
ocean is going to have a series of disasters. We try
battery culture. Exactly the same nature. One new
disease after another.
And all the immunization, all the research that
has to go behind it. But in the United States, I
don't think we'll progress beyond luxury food.
Because it's not necessary for us to increase the
protein supply that much? Well, I think the
increased protein supply around the world, and
Ravel may have talked to you about this, is
something of a delusion anyway. But actually, the
world is equally short on fats and oils, probably
more limiting nutrients. But no, because we'll
make things too expensive.
Every time we build a lobster industry, we'll have
to build a sewage disposal plant just to get rid of
the seawater that it went through, and so on, that
went through that lobster culture, and so forth.
And just the manpower involved in things is going
to make it impossible to culture anything except
luxury species. I think we'll find out some
interesting things. OK. Now. But the ranging of
using some sort of primitive feeder like shad to go
forth into the ocean and concentrate this thin
soup of the ocean and bring it back to us, now that
seems to be a much more viable approach. But you
don't think we'll choose? I don't think we'll
choose, no.
I want you to describe how fish population
histories can be inferred from fish scales found
in sediments. I wasn't sure I understood that. And
what ecological and evolutionary implications
does this technique have? Well, it's somewhat
unlimited, I think, eventually. But let me
describe the technique to start with. In a few
places, the ocean bottom is continuously
building up, as you know, and continuously moving
and doing all these things that we began to
understand from seafloor spreading and
continental drift. But in a few places around the
world, the bottom waters, usually in near shore
basins, are anaerobic or anoxic. They have no
oxygen in them, and nothing lives there. Even
though over most of the ocean, the sediments are
raining down every year. There are things living
there that mix them up, and so the time resolution
that you can get is of the order of 10,000 years at
the best. The sediments are mixed continuously.
But in these regions, they're laid down in layers
that you can identify year by year. You can put your
finger on it and say, within a few years, that year
is the year zero right there. That's what the
sediments were laid down in the year zero. you go
back in time become somewhat less certain but you
can just count back and you can check your count
with radioactive dating well such sediments
exist on land the whole monterey formation and you
can split it open and you can see peppered with fish
scales and other kinds of debris diatoms form and
effort so you know something in that year of what
the pacific was doing or what the ocean was doing
and something about what fish were present, you
see, because you can identify these scales. You
can date these scales, and you can tell how old they
were and how fast they were growing, how, you know,
what species it was, you know, how old the fish was
and how fast it had grown. So you know a great deal,
and you know it for that year, exactly. Well, the
kind of Rosetta Stone in this whole business is, of
course, if you try this, how well does this agree to
the known history? And when we went through that
exercise, we found it agreed very well with the
known history, where we really know what the
populations of the pelagic fish are out here. Our
results from looking at these sediments and
analyzing the number of scales per year coming
down, totally independently, gives us the same
curve of the variation between the number of hake,
the number of anchovies, the number of saris, and
the number of sardines. This gives us confidence
we can make these same kind of counts back into the
past, as far as we want, and see what has been the
relationship between these fish. And what we find
is something very surprising. We find that the
sardine, which was the dominant phlegic fish here
when man first started his fisheries, has never
been here for long periods of time, but only for
short bursts, maybe eight times in the last 1,600
years has it been here in quantity. The anchovy
harbor has been here continuously over the whole
time, you see. So it's really quite an interesting
picture. And my earlier parts of my conversation,
when I said society would seem to be unable to act on
information, this is very powerful information.
You would really never have expected to have such a
real insight into the way these species
interacted in the past and what their natural
abundance was and how it fluctuated. And now to
conceive that a fishery on the Anchovy, a species
that has maintained a sizable population here for
at least the last 1600 years, would be the same as a
fishery on the sardine, a species that was never
able to maintain a sizable population here for
more than 40 or 50 or 80 years at a time. and then only
a few periods, is asinine. I mean, you couldn't
expect it to have the same result, fishery on a
transient species and fishery on a permanent
species.
So in my earlier remarks, I said I thought we had
gotten exquisite answers on some of these
problems that society had enunciated as a
worthwhile problem to work on. And yet the
disappointment is, of course, not that they don't
act on this, but they don't consider it even in
their actions, to reiterate. OK.
What about in terms of evolutionary
implications? Do you foresee being able to apply
to see the evolution in general of fishes and fish
species from this kind of? Well, of course, that's
the traditional way of going because their 10,000
year resolution has no particular consequence.
But to see the interrelationships between the
microorganisms, for instance. So we know how the
Pacific was behaving when the sardine was here.
and how it behaved when they changed from one
species to another. We'll eventually know what
environmental conditions mediated these shifts
between species, because we can see how much
mid-Pacific influence there was, how strong the
California current was, how much subtropical
water was flowing up, how strong was the
countercurrent. And do this on a year-by-year
basis. That's a huge job. We have to identify all
the diatoms and foraminifera in these little thin
layers, seven tenths of a millimeter thick. But
you see, if we now go to a place like the
Bay of Bengal, and the Indians are going to start a
fishery, say, on their astrology, wouldn't it be a
wonderful thing to be able to tell them, is that a
permanent thing? species here? Is it
occasionally replaced by others? Is it just a
transient species? How steady is the population?
How steady has it been for 2,000 years? These are
big answers for people who want to guide their
fisheries in some rational way.
Would you judge us to be proceeding cautiously
enough are not cautiously enough in developing
the sea. What do you mean by us? Well, us as
Americans. Would you encourage us to exercise
more caution or less caution? I think caution is
the wrong word there. I would advise us to use more
rationality. Caution is really totally the wrong
word.
For example, we're going to The whole matter of
domestic waste is floating in the ocean. What do
you want to call caution there? Caution is putting
out a billion dollars in Los Angeles to build
tertiary treatment plants, is it? $300 per, $500
per capita when we have so many social needs? Is
that caution? No, all the evidence is the ocean is
perfectly competent to absorb these kind of
wastes. That's its business. Absorbing organic
material. So I'm not quite sure what the cost is.
Rationality is the word. Yes. We need a great deal
more. A great deal more. We need people other than
Cousteau advising the government on what to do. He
has reasons to scare people to death.
Which are? Funds for his institution. It's going
to be extremely costly. to society as a whole. It
doesn't take a balanced viewpoint. There's
pictures of us climbing to the highest mountain
tops and clutching our throats because we're
dying of anoxia because we've killed all the
phytoplankton. No evidence. No evidence. Now,
what do you see your role in the future of
oceanography? How do you perceive yourself in the
coming future? Well, I'd like to know. I have no
idea. I've always been enthusiastic
and melioristic, I guess is the word. Somewhere
between optimistic and pessimistic. I think
melioristic is optimism, but only you have to do
something about it and just have it happen. I've,
to some real degree, right at the moment, lost
confidence that Defense can be influenced very
promptly.
But our political system is such that it really is
not able to respond to the evidence.
It's acclimation, government by acclimation of
some sort. A politician moves the beat. causes the
least stir in some way, gets the fewest people mad
at him. And I really think maybe we just can't act
this way. Now, maybe we can afford not to act this
way. We can afford to put an extra billion dollars
in sewer plants in every major city along the coast
for no purpose.
And maybe we need to. Maybe it's the WPA of sorts.
Maybe it's the science that we've worked on as a WPA
of sorts at a higher level. Maybe the WPA concept
has evolved so that I'm nothing but a WPA worker
making bridges in some unknown creek in some
unknown mountain that will never be seen again. I
dislike thinking this, but I'm beginning to
wonder if the WPA concept hasn't spread quite a
bit. It worries me to see this wake of scientists
who have tried to serve this country and unable to
serve it. A great number of people that worked on
desalination just announced today that
something you knew 20 years ago when the
desalination program on the OSW was established.
that it was impossible to do this for agricultural
water. And you could make that calculation in an
instant. At that time, you knew that if the ocean
were freshwater, that is, if it were given to you at
sea level, it would have very little effect on our
utilization of water in these United States. It's
too big a continent.
But
I'm not a bit sure. I came to the conclusion that
Israel was full of smart people. They had reason to
be conservative with their resources. They're
screwed up as we are. They've brought our culture
there anyway. They are a piece of the United
States, more or less. They have the same screw-up
as we have. So I'm not quite sure. Mexico? Mexico
looks pretty good, I think. They don't
necessarily follow the tradition. They can have
their microondas instead of stringing copper
wires around forever because Anaconda insists on
it or whatever. They can have their communication
system by some totally modern approach rather
than by the conventional ones. Can they conduct a
fishery that way? Yes. These are the countries
that are going to maybe profit from this research.
They're starting an anchovy fishery. And they're
going to start it on the basis of the data we got to
try to help the people of California. Well,
survival is the fittest. I think the same old laws
still act. Are you still intimately involved, by
the way, with Israel? I don't know what you mean,
intimately. We're putting a breakwater over
there. Yeah, I mean, is that process still going
on? Oh, sure. Okay. Yeah. Sure, they're bright
people, but they're screwed up also. They have
their own political system that's copied much
after ours. They also can't do the rational thing.
What role do you see for Scripps' institution in
the future of oceanography? Oh, well, I think
Scripps will be a leader for a long time. He'll be a
leader for the simple reason that there are a lot of
bright people here. foreseeable future, I think
that it has to avoid getting into huge projects
which totally dominate it in many ways. Say, for
instance, the CERI project. It certainly may have
a role in that. But I think it's unhealthy for very
large projects to dominate an institution like
that, unless they're very highly generalized
ones. I think it should have a better role somehow
in advising the government. I've been looking at a
series of reports lately
in which we really act. I collect together various
groups of scientists as rather fixed panels to
review various research projects, various
proposals, and really criticize them. And I think
that's having a salutary I think that's working
rather well, but it's a rather small scale. I think
maybe that's the way one might act. Really get
competent people together so when Lockheed or API
or somebody like that has a big project, there's a
competent review by competent scientists that
are undertaken to really see if it makes sense, so
that you don't get in this funny situation of
they're still dealing with small-scale
hydrodynamics when it's really very large-scale
hydrodynamics.
Do you think that the role of oceanography, or
restructuring oceanography, if I may use that
word, or development of the oceans... Is
explosive.
Sure. I think that... It still suffers, like most
research in the United States, from the final and
enveloping shock wave of Alamogordo, which is, if
you throw enough money at it, you can solve it. That
was foreseeable, wasn't it? You put a billion
dollars in, you released this vast amount of
energy. But somehow, the important thing is I
remember the days when I was peripherally
associated with these great men who were
responsible for nuclear energy. Karam, Gamow,
Fermi, all these people. And I remember the
excitement there was at that time. Here was really
the new world. Columbus entering the new world.
Many ideas. Nobody had the idea it was going to be
just nuclear reactors in the conventional time.
Today, there were all kinds. with ideas of how you
use this nuclear energy, including plowshare,
just as an explosive. We've kind of lost that sense
of adventure. Everybody's treading too lightly.
Somebody else is going to have to do it, French
possibly. I don't know. They seem more
adventurous right now. They have a different kind
of a government, too. 40 people can argue about
something rather than just on 40 sides, rather
than 20 on two sides.
All kinds of viewpoints can be raised in a
Napoleonic society that can't be raised in a
common law, English common law society, just
because of the influence, I think, of our
judiciary system.
The influence of our judiciary system? Of our
judiciary system, our advocative system. Oh, OK.
All right. then you conceive... It's a curious
output, as I understand it. You probably know much
more about this, and your wife probably knows more
than you do about it. But it seems to me that a result
of the Napoleonic system is you try to get at the
truth, not just... The gray area is considered.
Pros and cons. It's a court of equity rather than a
court of law, if I use these terms correctly. In the
United States, all these things are decided as
though they were a court of law, either right or
wrong, one or the other. Science isn't that way.